
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# IDEEA.dev <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right"/>

\[development version of IDEEA model R-package and manual\]
<!-- badges: start -->

[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/IDEEA.dev)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=IDEEA.dev)

<!-- badges: end -->

## About

Indian Zero Carbon Energy Pathways (IDEEA) is a collaborative open
energy modeling initiative between [Environmental Defense
Fund](www.edf.org), [Global Change Programme, Jadavpur
University](http://juglobalchangeprogram.org/gcp/), and [Indian
Institute of Science, Energy Transition Group](https://iisc.ac.in/) to
develop tools and scenarios of India’s energy transition. The project
aims evaluation a broad set of scenarios with high penetration of
variable renewables and identify a set of most cost-efficient options of
deep decarbonization and carbon neutrality for India for broad public
discussion.

## IDEEA models

Decarbonization of electricity is a critical milestone of the energy
transition to low/zero emissions. Wind and solar energy are the most
sustainable options of decarbonization, and the recent reduction of
costs makes them the first options to consider. However, the variability
of the energy sources requires explicit modeling and evaluation of
alternative balancing options, such as hydro energy, energy storage,
grid, back-up capacity, and responsive demand. IDEEA project aims to
develop a “new” or “renewables era” modeling framework for India to
evaluate high-VER scenarios based on high temporal and spatial
resolution.

## Installation

You can install the development version of IDEEA.dev from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("ideea-model/IDEEA.dev")
```

## Example

This is a basic example which shows you how to solve a common problem:

``` r
library(IDEEA.dev)
## basic example code
```
